The metrics used to measure the performance of Large Language Models are quite different from the ones we've been using in more traditional models. We're shifting away from metrics like Accuracy, F1 score, or recall, and moving towards metrics like BLEU, ROUGE, or METEOR. 

However, the evaluation of applications with Large Language Models goes far beyond metrics. That's why we will analyze other techniques and tools, such as LangSmith or evaluation using other language models.

## Metrics Based in n-Grams.
These metrics are tailored to the specific task assigned to the language model. 

In this section, we'll explore examples of several of these metrics and how to use them to determine whether one model is superior to another for a given task. We'll delve into practical scenarios where these metrics help us make informed decisions about the performance of different models.
### Evaluating Translations with BLEU. 
Bleu is one of the first Metrics stablished to evaluate the quality of translations. In the notebook we compare the quality of a translation made by google with other from an Open Source Model from Hugging Face. 
| Article WIP | [Notebook](https://github.com/peremartra/Large-Language-Model-Notebooks-Course/blob/main/4-Evaluating%20LLMs/4_1_bleu_evaluation.ipynb) |
| ------ | ------ |

### Evaluating Summarization with ROUGE. 
We will explore the usage of the ROUGE metric to measure the quality of summaries generated by a language model. 
We are going to use two T5 models, one of them being the t5-Base model and the other a t5-base fine-tuned specifically designed for creating summaries.

| [Article](https://medium.com/towards-artificial-intelligence/rouge-metrics-evaluating-summaries-in-large-language-models-d200ee7ca0e6) | [Notebook](https://github.com/peremartra/Large-Language-Model-Notebooks-Course/blob/main/4-Evaluating%20LLMs/4_1_rouge_evaluations.ipynb)
| ------ | ------ |

## Monitoring, Testing and Evaluating LLMs with LangSmith. 
### Monitor an Agent using LangSmith. 
In this initial example, you can observe how to use LangSmith to monitor the traffic between the various components that make up the Agent. The agent is a RAG system that utilizes a vectorial database to construct an enriched prompt and pass it to the model. LangSmith captures both the use of the Agent's tools and the decisions made by the model, providing information at all times about the sent/received data, consumed tokens, the duration of the query, and all of this in a truly user-friendly environment.
| Article WIP | [Notebook](https://github.com/peremartra/Large-Language-Model-Notebooks-Course/blob/main/4-Evaluating%20LLMs/langsmith_Medical_Assistant_Agent.ipynb) |
| ------ | ------ |

### Evaluating the quality of summaries using Embedding distance with LangSmith. 
Previously in the notebook, Rouge Metrics: Evaluating Summaries, we learned how to use ROUGE to evaluate which summary best approximated the one created by a human. This time, we will use embedding distance and LangSmith to verify which model produces summaries more similar to the reference ones.
| [Article](https://medium.com/towards-artificial-intelligence/evaluating-llm-summaries-using-embedding-distance-with-langsmith-5fb46fdae2a5?sk=24eb18ce187d28547cebd6fd3dd1ddad) | [Notebook](https://github.com/peremartra/Large-Language-Model-Notebooks-Course/blob/main/4-Evaluating%20LLMs/LangSmithSumarizations.ipynb) |
| ------ | ------ |

## Evaluating Large Language Models with Large Language Models. 
In the course, you have already seen several examples of evaluation or moderation using Large Language Models. Now, you will see how a library that is based on evaluating using Large Language Models: giskard.

### Evaluating a RAG solution using Giskard. 
We take the agent that functions as a medical assistant and incorporate Giskard to evaluate if its responses are correct. In this way, not only the model's response is evaluated, but also the information retrieval in the vector database. Giskard is a solution that allows evaluating a complete RAG solution.
| Article WIP | [Notebook](https://github.com/peremartra/Large-Language-Model-Notebooks-Course/blob/main/4-Evaluating%20LLMs/evaluating_rag_giskard.ipynb)
| ------ | ------ |



